doc: Add documentation about expert mode in XTS widget (#1481)
Enalean/tuleap-documentation-en: languages/en/user-guide/tql.rst

Reviewer: suggestion: could you please add a section about the API breaking change in the deployment guide ? Same thing as we did for release 15.10. It should explain that `return_format` is removed and that existing cross-tracker widgets have been updated and should keep functioning as before

Reviewer: Perfect, thanks :+1:

Reviewer: suggestion: L208 is now incorrect

> When you use a semantic, all selected trackers must have it configured and all fields linked to the semantic must be readable by the current user.

Now, it works if _at least one_ tracker has the semantic. Would you mind changing this paragraph ?

Reviewer: suggestion: L211 is incorrect too: it works if _at least one_ tracker has the field

Author: Done

Reviewer: suggestion: L213 should include "Artifact id". L236 "Supported comparisons" should also include `@assigned_to` and `@id`

If you want, we can split the work on updating this. We did not update the doc after the changes on WHERE on previous releases, so we gotta do it now.

Author: Done

Reviewer: suggestion: I don't think we mention filtering on duck-typed fields, this page only talks about semantics and always-there fields. We should probably explain that in XTS TQL we can also search on duck-typed fields, and explain what the rules for matching are

Author: It's already explained line 189

 * ``@last_update_by``: the "Last Updated by" dynamic field. It behaves like a list and can have only a single value at a time.

>  * ``@assigned_to``: the "Contributor/assignee"`` semantic. It behaves like a list and can have multiple values at a time (multiple users assigned to an artifact).

Author: Done

> .. _tql_duck_typing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _tql_duck_typing:

Searching on similar fields
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''
```

Author: Done

Preconditions for multi-tracker search
--------------------------------------

> When you use a semantic, at least one of selected trackers must have it configured and field linked to the semantic must be readable by the current user.

Author: Done

For example, if you run an expert query containing ``@status``, at least one of the selected trackers **must** have defined a "Status" semantic and the "Status" field **must** be readable by the user viewing the widget.

> If **none** of the trackers does not define the "Status" semantic, it will cause an error to be shown. The same is true for permissions: if **none** of the "Status" fields is not readable by the current user, an error will be displayed.

Author: Done

> When you use a dynamic field, for at least one of selected trackers it must be added in the tracker and it must be readable by the current user.

Author: Done

Supported dynamic fields are the following:
  * "Submitted On": The creation date of the artifact.
  * "Submitted By": The user who first created the artifact.

>   * "Last Updated Date": The date of the last change to the artifact.

Author: Done

  * "Last Updated By": The user who made the last change to the artifact.
  * "Artifact id": The unique id of the artifact.

For example, if you run an expert query containing ``@last_update_date``, at least one of selected trackers **must** have a "Last update date" field and that field **must** be readable by the user viewing the widget.

> If **none** of the trackers does not have a "Last update date" field, it will cause an error to be shown. The same is true for permissions: if **none** of the "Last update date" fields is not readable by the current user, an error will be displayed.

Author: Done

    //Returns all artifacts with 'documentation' in the title that have been submitted
    //by user 'alice' and are assigned to the viewing user (for example 'bob')
    //or user 'charles'.

Expert mode
-----------

.. attention::

  This part is still work in progress, future releases may break your report.

>   You can follow advancement in the associated epic https://tuleap.net/plugins/tracker/?aid=37567

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can follow advancement in `epic #37567 SuperTableau - Full TQL mode <https://tuleap.net/plugins/tracker/?aid=37567>`_
```

Author: Done

Cross-tracker search widget is also available in expert mode allowing you to use extended syntax of TQL.

In this extended syntax of TQL you can choose which fields you want to display on the widget through ``SELECT`` syntax:

::

    SELECT @pretty_title, @status, open_date WHERE @assigned_to = MYSELF()
    // Returns all artifacts assigned to me and display its title, status and opening date.

When using Cross-tracker search expert mode, you must use ``SELECT`` syntax with at least one field and a condition after the ``WHERE``.

TQL ``SELECT`` syntax allow you to select on the same fields allowed for the condition plus some special fields:

Semantics and always there fields:
 * ``@id`` Artifact id

>  * ``@submitted_on`` Artifact creation datetime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``@submitted_on`` The creation date and time of the artifact.
```
To match L214

Author: Done

>  * ``@last_update_date`` Artifact last update datetime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``@last_update_date`` The date and time of the last change to the artifact.
```
To match L216

Author: Done

>  * ``@submitted_by`` User who created the artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``@submitted_by`` The user who first created the artifact.
```
To match L215

Author: Done

>  * ``@last_update_by`` User who performed last update of the artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``@last_update_by`` The user who made the last change to the artifact.
```
To match L217

Author: Done

 * ``@title`` Artifact title semantic
 * ``@description`` Artifact description semantic
 * ``@status`` Artifact status semantic
 * ``@assigned_to`` Artifact assignee/contributor semantic

> Fields short name

Reviewer: question: should we expand that part ? Maybe we can link back to the explanation of duck-typed fields we need to write 😅

Author: Done

Reviewer: With the link it's better, but there is actually a difference: for SELECT, date and datetime are compatible together...

Author: Done

Special fields:

>  * ``@project.name``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``@project.name`` The name and icon of the project that the artifact belongs to.
```

Author: Done

>  * ``@tracker.name``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``@tracker.name`` The name and color of the tracker the artifact belongs to.
```

Author: Done

>  * ``@pretty_title`` It's equivalent to the Artifact column of classic Cross-tracker search widget (or the title of the artifact view).

Reviewer: praise: good explanation :+1:

> To switch a widget to this mode, you should use the REST API ``PUT /cross_tracker_reports/{id}``. The body of your request should contains the key ``report_mode`` with the value ``expert``.

Reviewer: suggestion: not sure we want to explain that publicly in the doc just yet. Since "the paint is not dry" and it's still a tech preview... And besides, we will have to delete this sentence when the widget frontend does allow to switch through the web UI.
I suggest to remove this sentence. What do you think ?

Author: Ok, I agree

    //Returns all artifacts with 'documentation' in the title that have been submitted
    //by user 'alice' and are assigned to the viewing user (for example 'bob')
    //or user 'charles'.

Expert mode
-----------

.. attention::

  This part is still work in progress, future releases may break your report.

>   You can follow advancement in `epic #37567 SuperTableau - Full TQL mode <https://tuleap.net/plugins/tracker/?aid=37567>`

Author: Strange syntax :thinking:. Done
